---
layout: post
title:  "Make the most of autumn"
date:   2015-10-06 10:00:00
categories: activities
author: Lesley
image: http://res.cloudinary.com/fit4tots/image/upload/v1444133880/autumn_walk_u2sheh.jpg
---

6 ways to make the most of Autumn

There’s no denying now that the nights are closing in. My children are finally starting to wake up after 6.30am again (yippee) and there’s a nip in the air on the morning school/pre-school run. I’m still trying to avoid looking at the Christmas products in the shops and focus on the bonus of autumn days and activities with my lovely tots, so I thought I’d pass these on to you lovely lot! 

1. Dark and dull mornings - make porridge an exciting, filling and warming start to the day - I add cinnamon, seeds and berries or pureed fruit, or perhaps a spoonful of honey if necessary. 
2. Sweeping leaves - a great activity with the tots to help with sweeping or jumping in piles of leaves. OK so it takes longer, but it can get everyone’s heart rate up. My two are great at helping put them in the bag eventually! We’re lucky to have a garden, but often the big parks can be a great place to make your own fun with leaves. 
3. Catching leaves - my two are fascinated by the ‘make a wish if you catch a falling leaf’ - so we do a lot of chasing leaves when out in tree-lined streets at this time of year. 
4. Blackberry picking (while they last) - our walks are constantly interrupted by request to reach blackberries at this time of year, and they seem to be out later than usual this year! 
5. Healthy and nutritious casseroles - put them in the slow cooker - I’ve found that by adding pumpkin or butternut squash it melts into an amazing gravy - getting flavour and an additional veg portion into the kids. I have also made up some very silly songs about puy lentils and curly kale to get them eating less meat-centred dishes. 
6. Locally grown apples and pears - try and buy British and organic if you can - for a great store of vitamins to fight off the winter colds and flu
